---
MEP: 1
Title: Service Config
Discussion: N/A
Implementation: N/A
---

# Service Config

## Abstract

Glide is going to have many configs that control both functional and non-functional aspect of the service work. 
This GEP defines how that config is going to be set, structured and maintained across the service lifetime.

## Motivation

Glide is a gateway that provides a bunch of configurations to set, manage, and maintain. 
This ensures flexibility needed to meet various needs of our end users.

For example:

- **Telemetry Configs**: Log Output Format, Min Log Level, OTEL Configs
- **HTTP Server Configs**: Is enabled?, IP and Port to bind, max body size, CORS, etc.
- **SSL/TLS Configs:** Ciphers, Cert Paths, etc.
- **LLM Provider Configs**: API Keys, Default Parameters, Timeouts, Connection Pool Configs, etc.
- **Routing and Load Balancing Configs**: Balancing Strategy, Routing Weights, Provider Pool Definitions, etc.
- **Caching Configs**: Redis Connection Configs, TTLs, etc.
- **gRPC Server Configs**: Is enabled?, IP and Port to bind, etc.
- etc.

The configuration may be versioned via git to track and audit all changes. 
At the same time, some configs are sensitive data (notably, LLM API Keys) 
and it must not be provided directly in the config (otherwise, they would be leaked in git).

As any other config, users should be able to easily apply new changes to the config. 
The API keys may need to be rotated from time to time.

Finally, the more configs we expose, the harder may become to understand the overall config
and find the right setting to adjust. So the config structure is an important thing here to eliminate this fatigue.

### Requirements

- R1: Config format must be readable
- R2: Config format must allow comments
- R3: Config format must be `git diff`-able and versioned
- R4: Config must be easy to understand and reason about
- R5: Config must allow to include sensitive values from environment variables
- R6: Config may allow to include sensitive values from other plain files
- R7: Config should be easy to change and operate on

## Design

There are basically a few sources of configurations possible:
- via Glide CLI params & args
- via environment variables
- via a separate config file
- via a combination of CLI, environment variables, and/or config file

Setting complex nested configs via CLI or environment variables is usually a tedious error-prone process.
So Glide will try to leverage the file as config approach as long as possible.

### The Config Source

Glide config is represented a YAML file (R1, R2, R3). 
YAML is human-friendly version of JSON that supports comments and some useful magic like (including environment variables).
Go has a good support for the YAML format.

### The Config Structure

The config structure uses Glide's internal logical structure that we are going to communicate in Glide docs (R4).
So learning more about how Glide works should give enough context to understand the config. 
The opposite should be true as well, so knowing how the config looks will give some understanding about Glide's overall design.
This is a route that OTEL Collector config takes.

Glide should allow to pull values of configs from environment variables (see the config example below).
This helps to keep sensitive information (R5) out of the config file that avoids leakages.

### Config Ops

Glide should be able to automatically detect changes to the config (especially, our domain-related configs like routing) and
reload its internal representation together with the related state (R7). 
In Kubernetes, configs are going to be represented as a configmap mounted into Glide pods. 
On configmap change, the mounted file changes as well. So we need to watch for the file changes there. 
Outside of Kubernetes, we may support config reloading on SIGHUP signal.

### Config Example

```yaml

```

### References

- [OTEL Collector: Config Sample](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/configuration/)
- [MLFlow AI Gateway: Configuration](https://mlflow.org/docs/latest/llms/gateway/index.html#ai-gateway-configuration)
- [etcd: Configuration Options](https://etcd.io/docs/v3.4/op-guide/configuration/)
- [etcd: Config Sample](https://github.com/etcd-io/etcd/blob/release-3.4/etcd.conf.yml.sample)
- [Portkey: Config Sample](https://docs.portkey.ai/portkey-docs/portkey-features/ai-gateway/load-balancing)
- [HashiCorp Vault: Configurations](https://developer.hashicorp.com/vault/docs/configuration)
- [Prometheus AlertManager: Config](https://prometheus.io/docs/alerting/latest/configuration/)
- [Kong: Config](https://github.com/Kong/kong/blob/master/kong.conf.default)

## Alternatives Considered

[TBU, what other solutions were considered and why they were rejected]

## Future Work

[TBU, what we put outside of the equation now, but may want to consider in the future]
